Okay, we're going to do a little code review
of our recipe application. Now if you've
been following the course in a linear
fashion like step by step from the
beginning to end and got to this point, I
want you to alert you that in this
section of the course we are moving the
recipe app to a new repository that will
be in the course resources for sure,
where you'll be able to find the URL to
GitHub for this. The reason I'm doing
that is that the repository to date the
one that we've been working with today
was getting a little long in the tooth
as far as a number of branches. I think
we're up to 40-something branches there.
So that's quite a bit, and another reason
to do it is because there are people I
will take the course in a nonlinear
fashion, where they'll want to jump right
in here. Learn about doing a Spring Boot
application with MySQL and that's why
I'm doing that, and a third reason I'm
doing this is because I've been running
CI bills using CircleCI, and unknown to
me somewhere around 25 branch as it
stops automatically building all the
branches. So that was a interesting
discovery on with CircleCI, so I want to
keep my CI builds going. So I'm going to
start a new one here and also do that
for just work people I just want a
good MySQL example, what spring boot so
alerted you to that. Now if you have been
following this in a linear fashion the
rest of this video, I'm going to do a little
code review of the recipe application
and step through it real quick. Just to
bring up anybody who's not taking the
course in a linear fashion. So if you've
been following right along and you want
to skip ahead to the next video, please
do so now. But if you want to see a code
review of the recipe application that's
going to be the remainder of this video,
stay on board please. Okay, so what we
have is a basic Spring Boot Application
here. It's a, I'm doing it as a CRUD
Spring MVC app. And let's go ahead and
run it right now, so I'm going to start
it up and show you the application, then
we'll start going through it. So
underneath the covers we are using
Spring Data JPA, Hibernate and Thymeleaf
for the different technologies involved.
Oops! I accidentally ran my test again. We
actually want to run the application
here so that that is going to be
much better demo of the application if I
start up the Spring Boot Application
rather than running all the unit tests.
So we can see that it does come up on
port 80 pretty quickly or 8080 I should
say. I'm going to come over here
clear this URL, and we can see that we do
load data on initial startup, and we have
our spicy grilled chicken taco, perfect
guacamole. We can come in and view a
recipe. Come in and also see the
ingredients. Then we have links for
basic CRUD Operation. So if I want to
come in and update these limes. You can see limes
there, and submit it, we can see that it
does update in the show the ingredient.
And I did a more complex object model
here, so you can see the nuances of
working with multiple IDs. So we just
come back what do we call that show, so a
recipe to show. We are not pre-
loading the images but you can go and
upload an image into the database for us.
What else can we do? Also show you an
edit of the recipe itself. So we can come
in and update the recipe and say it
takes 15 minutes for a cook time and
submit that, and we can see that our
initial data is not passing their
validations on our command object. So
that is a little hole in our logic but
we could easily patch that if we wanted
to. Again it's just a little demo app, so
I'm showing the functionality of the
application. It lists out recipes and
their ingredient, so it gives us a nice
robust data model to work with.
Now let's go ahead and step through the
code base behind it. So we have we're
using Spring Boot and all Spring Boot
dependencies. So first one on line 30 there we'll bring in the Spring Boot Starter Data
JPA and that's going to bring in a
Spring Data JPA and Hibernate. Then
next on 34, we have Spring Boot
Starter Thymeleaf that gives us the
Thymeleaf template engine, and then on line 38
Spring Boot Starter Web that gives us
the embedded Tomcat instance,
then dev tools that gives us the auto
reload, and then finally on 48, we have
the H2 database, and right now we have
brought it introduced MySQL yet, so
that's what we're doing in this section
and course is introducing it. Then the
two dependencies that we added in the
previous section of the course are:
Project Lombok, they're in line 54 and
then WebJars for Bootstrap. The
Bootstrap actually has a dependency on
JUnit. So we also we get the Bootstrap
CSS jars and also the related jQuery.
Down there on line 64, Spring Boot
Starter Tests, that's what brings in
JUnit for tests. And we did demo the
test. Might go ahead and show you that
now
so I can come in here and in development
of this we were following test-driven
development. We have, I forget what we
have like 50 tests or so. We'll see you
in a minute. But we do have pretty good
instrumentation of the test. I were up to 70 test now. Awesome. So we have and
we've been following trying to do true
unit tests whenever possible. So we do
have a pretty good coverage of unit test
with Mockito. So we can take a quick look
at that. So you can see we're setting up
my mocks with a RecipeService and we
are using MockMvc to test our
controller actions so I'm not going to
go through and step through all the
tests at this point. We are using Thymeleaf.
The Thymeleaf templates are found
here in the templates directory. So this
is just a simple template, and let's go
ahead. One nice thing about Thymeleaf,
this is the template being displayed in
the browser, so we're not going through
the I mentioned so we can go ahead and
make changes here that's a real great
feature Thymeleaf. Now the form objects
we are following command pattern here so
all the forms, like when we made an
update to the ingredient. This is the
command object and we are using Project
Lombok to set the getters and setters of
this. And we get a no args constructor
that means we can get a set of a
constructor with no arguments, and that's
all done through Project Lombok, and this
is the command. So what happens here with
Spring MVC are
form will bind properties to this and
then that gets passed into our
Controller. Let's take a look at the
IngredientController real quick. So this
are pretty standard Spring MVC
Controller. It gets autowired with
several services. So we are following
a service layer. We are not injecting the
data layer directly in this. We have that
wrapped in a service layer which is I
believe is a best practice. So let's go
ahead and take a look at the Ingredient
Service. You can see that it's pretty
simple interface we don't have a lot of
complex operations here but we are
coding to an interface which is also a
best practice because you saw the tests
that we had, so all we got to do is
create a mock of the interface and
provide that implementation to our class
well it's under tests. A very very handy
way to do that.
Let's go ahead and take a look at the
implementation of it. So here's a
actual implementation. This stands as
a middle service between the Controller
and the Spring Data JPA Repositories. So
we can see that we have this is where we
are going in, getting data out, doing
validations, and then returning the
corporate data. So I'm not going to go
through everything line by line here.
Then we are also using the Spring
Data JPA Repositories. So let's go ahead
and take a look at that. So we get the
RecipeRepository that's going to be what
we wanted. So we can see this extends out
the Spring Data JPA
CrudRepository and this gives us a
number of operations. Just as a
reminder Spring Data JPA,
it's going to provide us in the
implementation at runtime, so we define
the interface and Spring Data JPA is
going to use Java reflection to build up
and actual implementation at runtime
for us. Now we accidentally saw the
converters, so I am following this for
data type conversion, so this is a
Spring standard. This is a standard
interface. It was spring to convert one
type to another, so this is another thing
that I'd like to do and this is wired up
as a Spring component. And then we are
loading data at startup. So I did show
two techniques in the course. One is Data
SQL. So Spring Boot will look in resources
for a file called data.sql, which is
optional. Now we can change that name if
we want to, but the default is that.
We can see that's a series of insert
statements. So this is going to run every
time on startup. We'll probably want
to change this in this course because we
don't want that to run on our MySQL
database, so we will change the
initialization of the database and I use
that because we want to initialize the
database with different data based on
condition. Remember right now, today
we've been using a MySQL I'm sorry H2
database and that goes away every time.
So that we're initializing it every time
we start up, and then it's just one way
that we are initializing the database.
The next one is going to be in bootstrap.
So what we have here is a class that
implements ApplicationListener and it's
listening for a ContextRefreshEvent. So
that's a specific event that gets thrown when the
Spring Context starts up. So that says,
we're all started up and everything's
ready to go, and then this gets called,
and onApplicationEvent, we call this we
call this method, getRecipes(), which
passes back a list of recipes and we
save that to the RecipeRepository. And
that's what loads up our initial recipes
for startup. Then finally I did add in a
directory here called scripts. So this is
a scripts directory. And in this part of
the course we will be adding MySQL arms
I'm sorry. Not MySQL, But there will be
SQL scripts, that we will be using to
initialize MySQL database.